{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}
\f0\fs24
Mesh generation for the mammos-mumag 20 nm iron sphere simulation\par
\par
Overview\par
This folder contains the files needed to reproduce the finite-element mesh used by the mammos-mumag simulation of a 20 nm radius iron sphere. The mesh has three volumetric regions: magnetic iron, non-magnetic air, and an outer spherical shell used by the mammos-mumag magnetostatic solver for the open-boundary transformation.\par
\par
Files in this folder\par
prepare_sphere20_air_shell.py\par
Python script that generates and post-processes the mesh.\par
\par
sphere20_air_shell.geo\par
Gmsh geometry file defining the three spherical regions.\par
\par
sphere20_air_shell.unv\par
Intermediate Gmsh mesh output in UNV format.\par
\par
sphere20_air_shell_raw.fly\par
Intermediate FLY file produced by mammos_mumag.tofly.convert before post-processing.\par
\par
sphere20_air_shell_mesh_check.txt\par
Text file containing the number of nodes, number of tetrahedra, tag counts, and volume checks for the final mesh.\par
\par
Final output\par
The final mesh used by the simulation is written one directory above this folder:\par
\par
../sphere20_air_shell.fly\par
\par
This is the mesh file read by ../sphere20_mumag.py.\par
\par
Geometry definition\par
The Gmsh file sphere20_air_shell.geo defines three concentric spherical regions in units of nanometers:\par
\par
r_iron = 20.0\par
r_air = 60.0\par
r_shell = 120.0\par
\par
The resulting regions are:\par
tag 1: iron sphere, radius 0 nm to 20 nm\par
tag 2: non-magnetic air region, radius 20 nm to 60 nm\par
tag 3: outer spherical shell, radius 60 nm to 120 nm\par
\par
The air region represents the non-magnetic space around the particle. The outer shell is required by mammos-mumag for the spherical-shell transformation used to approximate the open boundary condition at infinity in the magnetostatic problem.\par
\par
Mesh-size settings\par
The Gmsh file uses the following target mesh sizes:\par
\par
h_iron = 2.0 nm\par
h_air = 5.0 nm\par
h_shell = 10.0 nm\par
\par
The magnetic sphere is therefore meshed more finely than the surrounding air and shell regions.\par
\par
Step-by-step mesh generation\par
Run the mesh-generation script from the parent mumag directory:\par
\par
python mesh_generation/prepare_sphere20_air_shell.py\par
\par
The script performs the following steps:\par
\par
1. Run Gmsh\par
The script calls:\par
\par
gmsh -3 sphere20_air_shell.geo -format unv -o sphere20_air_shell.unv\par
\par
This creates the tetrahedral three-region mesh in UNV format.\par
\par
2. Convert UNV to FLY\par
The script uses mammos_mumag.tofly.convert with exclude_list=[1, 2]. This converts only the 3D tetrahedral elements and ignores 1D and 2D elements:\par
\par
convert(unv, raw_fly, exclude_list=[1, 2])\par
\par
The intermediate output is:\par
\par
sphere20_air_shell_raw.fly\par
\par
3. Sanitize exponent notation\par
The raw FLY file may contain Fortran-style D exponents, for example 1.0D-09. These are converted to E exponents, for example 1.0E-09, because esys-escript expects standard floating-point notation.\par
\par
The script also preserves the FLY header 3D-nodes. A naive replacement of all D characters would break this header, so the script only replaces D+ and D- in numerical values.\par
\par
4. Retag tetrahedra by centroid radius\par
The UNV-to-FLY conversion does not always preserve the Gmsh physical-volume tags in the way required by mammos-mumag. Therefore the script retags all tetrahedra using the radius of their centroid:\par
\par
r <= 20 nm: tag 1, iron\par
20 nm < r <= 60 nm: tag 2, air\par
r > 60 nm: tag 3, outer shell\par
\par
This produces a deterministic tag structure matching the assumptions of the mammos-mumag magnetostatic solver.\par
\par
5. Write the final FLY mesh\par
The final post-processed mesh is written to:\par
\par
../sphere20_air_shell.fly\par
\par
6. Write the mesh check file\par
The script computes basic mesh statistics and writes them to:\par
\par
sphere20_air_shell_mesh_check.txt\par
\par
Archived mesh check\par
For the mesh used in the archived simulation, the mesh check is:\par
\par
nodes: 16970\par
tets: 98946\par
tag 1 iron tets: 6298\par
tag 2 air tets: 36187\par
tag 3 shell tets: 56461\par
min volume: 0.9938346883663521\par
max volume: 392.89753111092733\par
bad tets: 0\par
\par
Units\par
The Gmsh geometry is defined in nanometers. In the mammos-mumag simulation, the parameter size = 1.0e-9 is used. Therefore one mesh coordinate unit corresponds to one nanometer in physical units.\par
\par
Software requirements\par
The mesh-generation script requires:\par
\par
Gmsh\par
mammos-mumag Python environment\par
mammos_mumag.tofly converter\par
\par
In the project setup used for this simulation, these were available inside the mammos-mumag Pixi environment.\par
}
